# ECE209AS Course project: House Occupacy Detection Via wifi packets sniffing



## Abstract
In this paoper we have demonstrarted that we can infer the rough activity of a room/house(if there is someone at home or not) by snipping and parsing the wifi packets that are sent our by IoT devices such as Google home or Amazon Echo, and by mobile devices. We furthur demonstrated that even by parsing the informaiton contained in 802.11 frame header, we can create wifi signature of differnt device and infer the acticity within the house or home without decrypting wifi packet payload.
## Introduciton

As the concept of Internet of things are prevailing these days, more and more family choose to use them in house as a center of controll for other in-house IoT devices. For example, Google home can be associated with smart door lock or smart lamp for remote voice controll. While these devices greatly facilitate our daily life, it also exposes security issues.

To be more sepecific, devices such as Google Home, or Amazon Alexa will need to be connected to the network in order to fully enforce it's functionality. Even though nowadays the wifi packets are encrypted and are almost impossible to be decrypted, we still find a way to characterize different devices presented in the room by parsing the 802.11 frame headers which are not encrypted and can be analyzed automatically by tools such as whireshark. We demonstrate that by just using the information in the 802.11 frame header, we can form the wifi signature of differnt device. After we gathering enough informaiton and forming the signiture of each device, we can compare each new snipped wifi packet generated by unknow device and indentify possible known device by generating signatures from the new packet and compare it with exsiting signatures. Lastly, by how devices are detected within certain period, we can infer the room occupancy.   

## Background

As our approach relies on forming wifi signature from 802.11 frame heavily, we will be briefly going over the 802.11 frame header information as well as the concept of wifi signature. We assume that readers are familiar with network's osi 4-layer architecture as well as packet dumping tools such as wireshark. We will also briefly introduce kali Linux operating system which is our wokring envirionment.

* 802.11 frame  
802.11 frame is a header that is appened to the packets that are passed down from higher transport layer, information related to medium access control layer(MAC layer) will be added to the the header. All the realted data get passed down from the upper layer will be the payload of 802.11 frame and will be encrypted. However, the 802.11 frame header will not be encrypted and can be grabbed and parsed by tools such as wireshark. Let's take a look at
